to make this favorite country dish from
Ireland begin by heating about a
tablespoon of oil in a large skillet
over medium heat add two medium chopped
onions to the pan let them cook for
about five minutes giving them an
occasional stir until they are lightly
browned add a couple of peeled chopped
carrots and a chopped small white turnip
and let the vegetables cook for another
five minutes
scrape the vegetables into a bowl now
add a pound of ground beef or lamb to
the skillet the lamb is traditional in
shepherd's pie while the beef version is
known as cottage pie
cook the meat breaking it up with a
spoon until it starts to get crispy and
browned
which will add flavour to the filling
now stir in two teaspoons of chopped
fresh thyme and a teaspoon of cinnamon
add the vegetables back to the skillet
stir in a tablespoon of flour then a cup
and a quarter of chicken broth beef
broth or beer and a tablespoon of tomato
paste
we are using a crisp India Pale Ale from
Boston's harpoon brewery lower the heat
to keep the mixture at a gentle simmer
cover the skillet and let the filling
cook for about 30 minutes while it's
simmering make the potato topping peel
two pounds of Yukon Gold or other yellow
potatoes and cut them into chunks steam
them until tender about 20 minutes in
the steamer or 10 minutes in the
microwave mash them with four
tablespoons of Cabot salted butter and
add some salt and ground white pepper to
taste
when the meat filling is done taste it
for salt and pepper spread it evenly in
a baking dish spread the mashed potatoes
on top and sprinkle with a half cup of
grated cabbage sharp cheddar bake in a
400 degree oven for about 25 minutes
until the filling is bubbling and the
top is golden brown